I did have D&D on I just opened up I opened up my phone I actually forgot
why I unlocked my phone this is the other thing that happens to me is I
pulled my phone out and I unlocked it to do something but I saw I had six text
messages about scheduling a car drop off for repair and I'm like and that took
all my brain processing and now I have no idea why I pulled my phone out and
that happens to me derailed several times a day like that's probably that
that's a weird thing it's like that that see this is why this is why I love the
oneplus phones with the switch the hardware switch you just flick the
switch down and you do notice yeah that's it job done I I think Apple's
probably gonna drop that from the iPhone and I think that's the best thing about
the iPhone too is they've always had that physical switch my bad was and this
is what you really got oh you really got a guard against as I saw the unread
badge on messages which there's only a couple of but there's only a couple of
people that actually sent me text messages mm-hmm and I did when I read it
went right into the message thread and I saw the whole thing I'm like oh it's too
late now you're just read yeah now I won't go back and it was no good but I
did have it muted I just I unlocked the phone to do something else you should
hide that somewhere really I know I should like put it off on another
screen somewhere you guys sound like a bunch of old people really yeah cuz we
why we forget stuff easily oh you you're messing things up on your phone you like
the hardware switches I tell you what being able to reach in your pocket and
flip that switch Chris the future is software-defined everything we're gonna
live in a software-defined reality I I'm gonna miss that when they win when phone
manufacturers dropping the headphone port is rough and dropping that mute
toggle mute switch is rough then it can you know worse than I dropped they drop
the flip phone yeah it'll be back it'll be back they just want to build one
small thing that's just metal and glass and nothing else yeah mark my words of
the flip phone will come back maybe maybe it'll be Nokia wouldn't that be
something if it was a Nokia yeah let's do a pre-show take an extra dose to
don't you mean a Microsoft phone Chris no no no so see there's a there's there's
still Nokia and they got I thought I thought Microsoft kept the phone part
and spun off everything else well there's actually still it's very
confusing no the original the original sale had an a time limitation on
Microsoft making smartphones so it always reverted back to Nokia for
making smartphones after a couple of years and they started preparing for
that yeah yeah and they are actually all the patents they are already doing they're
shipping Android phones right now they've started doing it oh yeah
Microsoft owns the patents though that's the important yeah this is Linux
unplugged episode 208 for August 1st 2017
Oh welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show where one of your
hosts is literally witnessing his Bitcoin Empire fork my name is Chris my
name is Wes hello s quite the show today and once again ladies and gentlemen the
beard joins us aka mr. Rekha hello beard hi guys hello Beardsley thank you for
making it again this week what a champ we have quite a show today quite quite
quite a show today we had to because you're in you know you have such woes
about your finances that's true we have the topics of forks coming up in a
little bit some big transitions for the gnome project project windows users have
yet another reason not to switch to Linux we're gonna finally talk about
that beautiful Linux based on plasma that I forgot to get to last week
Corita's got some troubles Firefox has got some new projects and JB's making a
transition plus the start of a new challenge we'll talk up we'll talk about
we'll kick off that's what I'm looking for we'll kick off the slack wear
challenge this week on the show we're gonna kick off the slack wear challenge
are you ready was I'm so excited are you you're gonna do with me right yes I am
so we'll talk about this we'll talk about the slack wear challenge we'll lay
the groundwork in this week's episode so we got all of that plus we have some
breaking news that's happening right now as we record this show so before we go
any further point of order right here got to bring in that mumble room time
appropriate greetings virtual look I love that thank you for being here so
really quickly just off the top we won't make a big to-do about it but a very
valuable and well-known open source project is undergoing a major fork today
and it's Bitcoin Bitcoin is splitting into BCC and BTC so a minority of
Bitcoin but yet influential community members are forking Bitcoin to Bitcoin
cash on August 1st that was today this blip the Bitcoin blockchain split into
two now it doesn't look like it's having really a huge impact on value or on
people's balances the value of Bitcoin has remained pretty steady today it just
essentially creates a new token now it's up to different aspects of the community
if they're going to recognize it or not Bitcoin cash will fork bitcoins existing
software and transaction history and it brings a new cryptocurrency tokens on a
new blockchain with different rules one of those big rules is the size of the
blockchain individual transactions and whatnot this has sort of been brewing in
the background for a while more than a year really probably since I've been
doing plan B and as a Bitcoin user I noticed that there is a massive massive
massive delay now in processing transactions unless you really kind of
grease the wheels with an unusually high transaction fee but after running into a
few roadblocks this morning miners were able to successfully create blocks on a
new blockchain called Bitcoin cash at a rough at roughly I don't know why it's
roughly at 2 14 p.m. Eastern Time today with the this effectively means it's
happened at this point in time some pretty big outlets though are not really
recognizing Bitcoin cash I believe coinbase being one of them yeah yeah and
it's taking off it's growing it's growing from there the the big launch
though I mean this some people may it may actually be able to make some money
for this we may see that both these things continue to exist especially if
transaction fees are lower on the Bitcoin cash network so it may be that
smaller transactions become popular in Bitcoin cash and large transactions
become more popular on standard BTC who knows but I know it's not a Linux topic
but don't tell me tell the Linux Foundation the power of forking I think
it's just a non-story really I think it's just gonna be another light coin
it's gonna drop off here's why I think it's well maybe maybe here's why I feel
like this story has some legs is the real thing that's the topic of debate
here is the technology in the blockchain yeah but just a few days ago a lot of
the Bitcoin core team and a lot of the companies came to consensus about how to
go forward with that yeah I don't think I don't think Bitcoin screwed or
anything like that but I think so you know I just made a little reference
there to Linux Foundation I think I think there's real money like huge
money like game-changing going to disrupt the financial industry money in
blockchain technology and so when the block when anything is happening in the
open source blockchain projects I think there is a much bigger technology story
being told there this reminds me of the the distros that forked off and did the
the non system D stuff it feels like the same kind of situation that one and
yeah although in this case the Bitcoin cash people might argue that they're
the more progressive minded folks that well that's what the the non system D
folks that do all right well you know just I wanted to note it because it
happened today there are arguments against this fork larger block sizes
mean there's gonna be more delay and block propagation it'll be harder more
expensive to maintain a node starting a new node from scratch is gonna take
forever to download all that stuff there's it's already massive but it's
kind of interesting that this is one of the whether good or not it's one of the
interesting things about you know cryptocurrencies in general is that
these sorts of things can happen and they can exist off on their own and do
whatever they want and we get to watch yeah and I just saw I just silently sit
here and hope that the last remaining few bitcoins that I have clutched on to
are worth something in a few years amen amen to that so last week we talked to
mr. Martin Wimpress about the Matei or buntu Matei project migration to
github and it looks like this week that the known project might be fancying
themselves a move did you see this one was yeah now it's I don't think it's
gonna be github it looks like it's not github and they say essentially that
they they need to improve their development infrastructure and they want
to provide developers a more efficient integrated featureful way to enjoy a set
of tools they say their current system is getting increasingly antiquated they
use a C get for code hosting and bugzilla for issue tracking Wow are we
calling bugzilla ain't antiquated now yes are we allowed to say that because I
don't think you're allowed to save things like that about open source
software that a lot of open source advocates use I don't I think it's
you're not allowed to say that I'll say it about see get it I'm the proprietary
guy that likes github issues so get lab is open source so if they go to get lab
all good yeah so it looks like it looks like the evaluation has focused on two
main solutions speaking to get lab get lab and fabricator if you're
unfamiliar with these they have a little introduction but beware that they say
the get lab isn't simply a github clone I don't know exactly what they mean by
that but it sounds like in their inference in there is it get lab is
missing features mm-hmm so I did a little diggy little diggy dig and get
lab is MIT licensed so they could they could possibly extend get lab get lab
has a bit of a reputation I don't know if it's fair or not so I'm not making
any judgments but get lab has a reputation for being a little snippety
about upstream acceptance of new patches and stuff like they seem to be pretty
not accepting seems to be the reputation fair or not I don't know so I don't know
if that means that the known project would essentially end up forking a
version to get lab for their own use that's not ideal either because what I
like about bugzilla is it was commonly used in the community so there was more
than one project maintaining it well if gnome forks get lab they'll just remove
features so it's okay maybe the cult I believe that entirely really polished
and we'll have it yeah I don't have a giant header bar to hmm so they figure I
guess I think they've played around with get lab a little bit but anyways they
are they're looking for feedback and that's one of the reasons I threw in our
community news section is they are looking for feedback from the community
especially the gnome community in creating a migration plan based on their
concerns and things like that so it's probably a good time to get involved the
issue tracker seems to be a big part of it for them I'd say I mean I wish them
yeah yeah no it is a good idea and the whole going from just like something like
see get to modern interactive you know really rich web UI source control
platforms it's really it can't be like a remarkable shift for a lot of developers
you know there are those I can live and breathe the command line but for a lot
of people like that really makes it easier for them to understand interact
quicker to develop with so I can see that doing good things for the well you
know the number one thing you see is now this is more of a github effect and it
is a get lab effect but the number one thing you see with github is way more
community involvement all of a sudden now get lab benefits from a bit of that
halo effect to monkey calm you wanted to jump in with a point about get lab go
ahead we switched over to get lab just because of the issue tracking and we've
switched everything for well we were SVN so we had to but we've all our
developers are on get lab and issue tracking and even bug integrating some
of the the bug fix technology into our existing switching is just it works
seamlessly so hmm well there you go right there and I think we've seen other
people sort of say that to it especially people in the community speaking I just
want to point out like command line you can still use command line with get lab
and get up sure that's what I exclusively use command line for those
yeah actually I think I think I've never I've only used the command line with
github I've never used any I usually just use the web interface because they
are very oh well yeah I mean to browse it and stuff but I mean like commits
right clone software oh which is useful for like casual users or people who I
tend to like fixing a typo or something never done a repo okay I tend to like it
because I'm a very visual person sure sure that they they surface the stuff in
a very easy to understand way yeah yeah yeah you can even you can even edit the
documents right and get get lab so you don't even have to to do it can do a
remote commit you just open the file edit it and save and commit the changes
right there in the web interface hmm that is nice and I could definitely see
how that would bring in a lot more people Robert you had something you
wanted to contribute go ahead well just saying that also has its own built-in CI
server so you have one you only need to install one thing and you get all the
features from issue tracking to a CI build server yeah yeah pipelining or
built-in one go and it's also it's also pretty straightforward to set up which
is that's pretty compelling too so let's talk about get hub for a second I guess
they had a bit of an outage yesterday that's right I didn't really impact
anything I was doing but probably affected some projects that have moved
over to github and but Wes like he does just just loves to sleuth around github
all day long and he found this project with no description no topics provided
seven commits one contributor but ladies and gentlemen you could be looking at
Google's JPEG killer a lossless JPEG replacement it's called pick PIK and
it's a new lossy image format for the internet and Wes here has this directory
that contains an encoder and a decoder for the format it requires a CPU that
has a FMA compute a little compute chip in it so like a Haswell or better Intel
or a vx2 I think on that no yeah I think those are both x86 technologies so it's
it's like turbocharged by your CPU and then down here at the bottom it says
this is not an official Google product no it ain't but it's just on their
github page so didn't Google already create this with WebP anyway yeah well
WebP would might be to do something else this seems to be like one of the things
that they've done here is they've built a a lossless JPEG repackager like it's
built to replace JPEGs huh I don't know I think it's because PIK is lossy and
WebP is lossless like well didn't you just say it was a lossless JPEG
replace PIK is lossy what is the yeah okay so what is the I guess it just
probably means you can convert from JPEG to this you've already lost with JPEG
it's already compressed what what is the new image format that the internet
phones are gonna have with iOS 11 the HIF or whatever it is he he format it's
actually like I guess it's a standard but yeah so I just I think we're gonna
have a new image but this is probably for Android maybe maybe maybe not it's
just just we could have a new world of image formats all of a sudden us Linux
users have gotten real comfortable to be able to double click on files and we
could have iPhone users and Android users taking pictures and formats that
we can't open and okay so there is a github repository for it H E I F yeah
yeah so sounds like at least from what I'm reading over on H N here it's a
image container format right more like a V can support JPEG h.264 or h.265 so I
think yeah that Apple probably be using a version of h.265 it's similar for in
the HIF container yes which is confusing but think of it as like MKV you can have
x264 or a VP8 file in an MKV can so if they use h.264 or h.265 then you may
have some patent issues or other things with that but my head's spinning not with
JPEG does it really matter though because images already using WebM and WebP and
that's like half the images on the internet yeah okay so they do some
people here do also speculate like like we like we were just talking about that
WebP WebP is lossy and is aimed at low quality and YUV 420 only so pick is
perhaps a broader broader scope I'm always disappointed like when I'm on
Google Plus when I'm accidentally on Google Plus which is the only time I've
ever on Google Plus anymore and I I want to grab something that's funny off of
Google Plus and I grab the image and it's a WebP image I can't put that in
Telegram like that's what I want to do with it right I can't toss it on Twitter
like I can't I gotta like save it to my desktop open it up save it as a JPEG it's
jank wait what it doesn't work on Telegram isn't aren't the stickers WebP
yeah I believe they are well you can't I couldn't get it I couldn't get to attach
as an image that would embed in the in the chapter really yeah that's weird I
could try again but yeah I was like well this is disappointing this is what I
wanted this image for it right exactly all right so while we're talking about
things that are just applicable to just absolutely everybody on the Sun this is
what this is that's what hey can you tell it's summertime everybody there's
something that's been cooking under the Sun and that's the Windows subsystem for
Linux now it's out of beta but that doesn't necessarily mean you can get
your hands on it yet you know how Microsoft works right they like to they
like to announce something that's this is a final product that you can get in
three months so that's what's going on I think with the subsystem for Linux but
Microsoft says they're damn excited they are damn excited to announce that in
Windows 10 fall creators update because that's what we have to name service packs
now due to ship in fall 2017 the Windows subsystem for Linux will no longer be a
beta feature and will become a fully supported Windows feature whoa no more
hacking your Windows box with those drop-down things that just put you in
the insider program and this is great news for those of you who have
considered not switching to Linux and now need an excuse not to because really
what this is doing is it signaling to people that you can now put this in
production in fact Microsoft even promotes this aspect they say now you
can go ahead and integrate this in with your date of it day developer tool set
and become even more productive when building testing and deploying your apps
on Windows 10 which nobody's doing so it doesn't matter anyway when your boss
tells you you have to run Windows then you can just install this and pretend
the problem is that subsystem is not going to matter to like 80% of the
people that are doing development because you can't use it SSHFS to
connect your Linux servers anyway yeah do you hear that that's a quite an edge
case just because you can't use this is that really an edge case do you know how
many people use SSHFS to work on their Linux servers but a lot of people that's
my point it's there's a plenty of people who develop locally and then deploy
using other tools this is HFS isn't the only tool to do that no but I think it's
more common than you think I use SSHFS for something completely different yeah
I mean I think there's I mean there are a lot is it up go on Katie connect uses
as I say SSHFS to remotely access your phone your file manager on your phone
yeah I mean it is definitely a helpful tool but there are a lot of things so
why would you just use win SCP you could just use win SCP right I suppose yeah
I mean it's it would be nice to have it on the command line but there's ways
around it but I I've never I've never tried this I did consider actually
giving this a go but then I realized it's not actually gonna be until the
fall update but the autumn update for our UK actually could you say could you
call it the correct thing it's the fall creators update do they call it the
autumn creators update I know they were they had there's a whole thing like
debate about if they were going to rename it or not I'm not sure which way
they went I thought we were just calling them all redstone updates now I heard
that's why they bought minecraft that would be better yeah see you the only
thing you really have to do is once it's ready is just go into the windows
feature area and check the the windows subsystem for Linux this blog seems to
imply that the only change most people are gonna notice is that they just
didn't put beta in parentheses next to the subsystem name like they really
haven't changed much since then fascinating we have gone from Microsoft
and canonical co-announcing this feature to now Seuss is on here isn't Fedora
tooth but it was a little I think so yeah I just you know arch onto the now
Ubuntu and yeah people are putting arch on there it is so maybe while you're
doing your your new challenge you can see if you can put that on there it's
like we're on Windows yeah that just seems like the ultimate you know our
machine for the slack worst challenge segment I'm sorry I'm sorry toss it in
there toss it in there I haven't seen any promo from any other
distros featured in there makes me wonder if maybe they're ashamed of it so
not only have they been very quiet since the announcement but they were mums when
it was announced initially and I mean so we have two mums we have mumps on no
details about what was gonna go in there it was only something Microsoft said and
then and then once it's actually in there really no promotion from the
projects either it is extremely awkward and I wonder if it's a little bit of
that Novell partnership shame when Novell teamed up with Microsoft back in
the day and then Sousa was just punished publicly for it so harshly I wonder if
that's I wonder if they're just gun shy from that kind of stuff but yeah to me
it seems like something you'd want to promote and the windows the windows news
outlets like your Paul Therot and your Mary Jo Foley's they were they were
talking about it quite a bit so people knew anyways I haven't got a chance to
try but now I actually feel like maybe that now it's coming out of beta maybe I
actually should just give it a go but that would mean installing Windows 10 so
I really got to make it worth it I would really gotta it's gotta be content like
something else I could do on Windows 10 you know it's like if you're gonna
travel somewhere you don't go there just for the sandwich like you might really
want that sandwich yeah is that my only person you're right okay cuz sometimes
there's places that make really good sandwiches you need to try it I haven't
eaten but you can't tell family members it's just too embarrassing I think I
should have lunch after this yeah you know what let's take a moment let's
take a moment stop talking about sandwiches damn it Wes let's talk about
ting go to linux.ting.com to support the show and get $25 in ting credit or if
you're gonna if if you're if you're gonna buy a brand new device they'll
give you $25 off the device too that's pretty nice you go to linux.ting.com
it's just pay for what you use wireless a fair price however much you talk text
or however much data you use it's $6 for the line and then your usage on top of
that for your minutes your messages and your megabytes nationwide coverage no
contracts no quote-unquote agreements a dashboard better than any other phone or
carrier on the market they support GSM and CDMA phones they have a network for
both so check their BYOD page you can buy directly from them or bring your own
that's I've done a little bit of both myself one of the things I really like
to suggest about ting too is to constantly check their social network
because they're they have been doing a giveaway of them some moto g4 s's I
believe it was and if you check their page for their shop page but start start
by going to linux.ting.com they'll often have deals on stuff like they've got SIM
cards for nine bucks they got the Cadillac phones there at the top and
then you go down they got some they got some amazing deals especially it's
depending on what you need from a phone like they have flip phone stuff they have
my fives just tons of phones look at all these phones look at this they have look
at this West one two three four five six seven they have seven phones under a
hundred bucks Wow and then the e4 just added $129 buy
one so you have a backup in case you break your box nice phone yeah I know
right I'm feeling maybe what I problem is is my hand-me-downs don't run Android
anymore that is one thing people complain about to me they're like yeah
but what if I need to go I can't go to the the Verizon store or whatever and I
mean I think one you know there are other stores but to like at those prices
you can just buy one as a backup well and I've been with Noah on the road when
he damaged his phone he went into Best Buy he bought an unlocked phone he put a
ting sim in and he was back online within minutes it's it's really flexible
linux.ting.com so I want to just mention Nitrux it's the most beautiful Linux
distribution ever and I teased it last week and then we didn't have a chance to
talk about it and I would have just let it pass by because everybody likes to
make these claims oh it's the most beautiful Linux ever I've heard that before right
we've all been romanced with that it's the beauty most beautiful Mac clone ever
it does look a little Mac OS-ish I suppose it sort of had but it has
elementary style launcher with a with a with a dock down below and a persistent
bar along the top but it's actually plasma 5 and cute and it's based on
Ubuntu 1710 and I don't know it's you know I've been I've been recently
looking at Netrunner and Maui Linux I'm going to review Maui Linux Chase and I
are gonna talk about Maui Linux the next user mm-hmm so we got I've been trying
out different plasma based distros recently sort of whittling my way to my
final destination like this new distro hoppin Chris it's fun I know I've done
like three distros in like the last week I am getting around so if you want to if
you want a really fancy nitricks or a plasma themed desktop you go check it
out they call it the Nomad desktop how did we talk about this okay I used it a
little bit did you do you have did you have a follow-up at all no it's it's it's
a little clunky yeah like it's got a lot of cool ideas but you know it's in some
massive beta so I kind of automatically just classify the clunkiness to the beta
part because they're basing on a beta and all their stuff is a beta so it's
hard to say that yeah any of the bugs I experienced were you know game changes
or anything so you go so there's a lot of cool ideas they've been doing yeah
wait so there was some things that impressed you yeah I want to use some of
their applets and neon but like I like the the notification is really I really
like that applet because they rebuilt the whole system tray yeah and I think I
think they did that pretty well but the system D module for system settings I
want that to be put in the regular plasma yeah yeah that's that jumped out
at me too in the screenshot there well thank you around thanks for the thank
you for the follow-up on it I I started to get a sense we talked about I
realized you this what happens if I don't drink a beer before the show so I
fast then I and then I go in here and these kinds of things come up so
producer Michael coming in with the follow-up to save the segment thank you
sir and while we're talking about plasma desktop type things like the plasma
desktop applications there's a real situation going on with Corita the
creative foundation appears to be in a bit of peril and this is a first I was
like a foundation for Corita like Jesus does every project need a foundation
like what the hell's going on here I mean I was a little skeptical at first
but this is how they are able to pay for one of their full-time developers it's
actually just sort of the way things go mm-hmm our buddy I key today on patreon
announced that they're starting the legal framework to set up a company or
own solace same thing like you just there's gets to it that's why I did
Jupiter broadcasting eventually it's just where you get to eventually where
it's like crap now I gotta do this so the creative folks have a foundation
it helps pay for you know some things and people and things like that and
they're getting their taxes online and they figured everything would be fine
since they hired a lawyer to help set everything up and they checked all the
boxes beforehand and they've been doing everything that lawyer consultant told
them to do however they ended up getting flagged in the tax inspector found two
problems and essentially they're caught in a real catch-22 because they claimed
back that for things that they bought by the foundation but they also took besides
taking in donations also sold some things like swag or documentation or
guides and so they weren't 100% donation based they were also kind of a company
so they're mostly not a company but they're also kind of a company and so
they're getting screwed on both ends of that and they have a tax bill of 24,000
euros right now as a result they got a little down to 15,000 but then the tax
accountant bill came out to 4,000 euros so it is a bad situation it is really
bad and there's also kind of confusing because the primary full-time developer
was in Russia and so they didn't pay some of the taxes that they thought they
should have or something like that they weren't they weren't required they were
trying to charge them for things that they were not required to do because he
was in Russia yeah there you go there you go thank you so that's just a bad
situation for them because you you you realize when you read this post that
they essentially did everything right and it's just like if you're in here in
the States the way you would get the way you would have gotten around this
because I obviously can't apply it over there but here in the States the way you
would have gotten around that is the fee for the books and the DVDs and stuff
would have been a gift of a donation a donation amount gifted you know you could
make a donation of five dollars or more and we'll send you these DVDs and
that's how you get around this problem in the States I don't know how you get
around it outside the States but that's you know because if you walk you have to
really be careful if you're a if you're a foundation or a nonprofit in the
States you really got to watch that because the IRS will get you and they
got got so it looks like now they've spun off as a separate company that will
take that income and then the main foundation can be 100% make sense that's
how you should do it and this is why even nonprofits and open source
companies have lawyers on retainer yeah and fees and things even though it costs
a crap ton it's cheaper in the long run yeah wow man they've also spent the
other thing that is just we've just talked the hard numbers and stuff but
think about the stress of this on these guys right you know they just want to
make great open source design software great great software then they have to
take months of their development time to resolve this issue it's eaten to their
coding productivity it's they they could they were too distressed by all this and
too busy to do their usual May fundraiser so their revenue is down they
thought at one point they're gonna almost certainly go broke but like a
couple of hero donors stepped up that's awesome and kept them going for a little
bit and so you need sitting there at the end of the day you're like how we just
haven't been as productive if we wanted well I wouldn't be like dealing with
taxes like this is the entire this is the opposite of I wanted when I wanted
to make my badass new you know illustrating software it's really sad
because you know it's just you just want to make open source software you don't
have to do all this exactly they've done that I've not even tried to make money
and they had a consultant home you know and it's just you could see how years
go by and now you've sold a few DVDs you don't even think about it of course you
think it's all going into the foundation spot it's all going towards work and all
that but yeah so create a foundation is in it's sort of a bad situation but
they're posting year-end reports and I'm just kind of following this I don't
really see them like begging for money here but they do have a they do have a
spot on this post which we have linked in the show notes it's also created
org where you can make a one-time donation or a reoccurring donation it's
got a $1 minimum so yeah if you know like I know Albert Wester is a huge user
of Krita if anybody really loves Krita send them 14 grand yeah right to help
them out nearly loves Krita I'll tell you yeah you really got to love it yeah
you really got to do so let's let's talk a little more a community news I'm
liking this so we're kind of sticking to community stuff and Linux unplugged
and when I look at Firefox from like a community perspective I don't hate it
like Popey does I know Popey's a big Firefox hater these days only uses how
dare you but I actually get more excited about some of the things they're working
on from that like project common voice is really neat we've been covering that
on the Linux action news and now my friends I invite you to go to test
pilot dot Firefox comm slash experiments and check out some of this goodness here
so this will be this will be relevant later on in the show voice fill which is
a speaker a speech recognition in Firefox a voice fill lets you speak to
your favorite search engines and fill in the information using Firefox to do the
processing encrypt a send that's what this is the one we're gonna play with
probably send which is an encrypted file transfer it generates a link and you
can send it to people like in an email or something like that this one I really
like snooze tabs right website wrong time snooze it until you need it yeah
snooze tabs lets you dismiss tabs now and set an alarm to open them later
that's neat but then they take it up a notch containers contain yourselves
create different containers for each of your online lives your work self your
social self your personal self to stay organized and maintain privacy that
actually almost kind of registers with me because my hack for that right now is
either incognito mode which is transient or I spread it out across like three web
browsers so my three main accounts I like to bang around in all the time I
spread it out and then you know it's like my personal account my work account
and then maybe like one of the show accounts that I'm reading the news or
the email feedback for for that but if I could do containers
that just sounds like the kind of ridiculousness I might get into I'm not
sure if they're really doing Docker or what I'm kind of let's go take a look
yeah they also have a few other ones like I was saying they have the send one
which is pretty neat send lets you upload in encrypt large files up to a
gigabyte so that's another way you you and I were just talking about sending
files around before the show the Firefox tab containers are not
necessarily containers they are session individual session sure sure yes it's
not like Docker or something like that and I know it's actually to me it's
it's what I've been wanting for years yeah and what I've had to do like weird
workarounds to like make my own browser structures and stuff it's got to build
like things built on electron it's container ization of like the user
profiles right or personas right personas that's yeah yeah that's the
part which is great because that's I have like 35 personas in Chrome and this
is one of the big things that has kept me from Firefox I know I moan about
Firefox but this is one of the big things that it's it just isn't currently
very good having a large number of very separate profiles and having all of them
or a large number of them open at the same time it just can't do that
yeah I have tried it there's an add-on that does literally what this new
feature is going to do like it's individual tabs that had different
profiles associated like choose which profile you want on what tab huh so you
could oh yeah it looks like you can do that with this feature too you'll be
able to set it up you can have each tab be its own that's even more useful so
instead of having multiple windows yeah that's I guess that's the way Chrome does
it now because we have a family machine at the RV the lot that everybody sits
down at so we have different personas there on Chrome which is really nice and
then this mumble machine has Chrome with different personas on it for different
hosts that sit down and we use that quite a bit but it always spawns a whole
new window yeah it's not on separate tabs this is like a full this is just
using electrolysis that it's like like potential of like we're really what it's
great for so you're saying this is maximum electrolysis that's what this is
the like this separation of processes but also separation of profiles on top
of the processes whereas Chrome is just processes no no no profile structure
let's be real like you have a full profile but you can't have individual
tab sessions whereas this would do that people are only really ever gonna have
three containers they're gonna have a home container they're gonna have a work
container and they're never porn container oh yeah I was thinking I was
thinking like shopping and stuff but you're right a porn container would
probably wait why do you even need a porn container surely that's what just
that decognito is for yeah I suppose I guess he gets sick and tired of because
incognito doesn't save cookies you'd have to log in every single time I guess
that's what yeah I really don't it's not saving my saving those you'll have you'll
have your encrypted porn container password cookies yeah there you go I'm
totally not liking this video on Facebook that's for sure just wait till
you have the version that integrates into a system D and then you'll have it
down all the way contained that's really what up that's what I'm gonna be excited
so I sent you a I sent you with the a test link there oh where did you in the
chat oh yeah okay all right I'll bring that up so is this using the new
Firefox and I installed it right there in Firefox and everything so you it
works in Chrome or Firefox I noticed so that's a good thing it's interesting too
because it's kind of a like a web infrastructure play and not a browser
yeah they're hosting this somewhere right yeah okay so yeah the URL is it's
an HTTPS and it's send up firefox.com slash download and then a character
string and then a hash after that so that's like a interesting so I wonder if
you I wonder if that hashtag if that hashes of the file is persistent anyways
yeah okay so then it is it safe is it safe to download a crappy webcam picture
of me so I'm gonna download and then yeah it's downloaded super fast and boom
there it is this is actually Firefox back or launching their dropbox
competitor yeah well in a way like why does Mozilla want to get into the file
hosting of kind of funny competitor to we transfer yeah but do they really want
to be policing child porn and terror and pictures of Isis beheadings in some ways
it seems kind of like a desperate ploy of like I mean Chrome tries to be so
useful with all the things Google does they kind of have to do the same isn't
are they doing it permanent thing because it sounds if they're doing a we
transfer structure it's like every act once a day they wipe yeah there is
expiration yeah aren't you so it's like it's basically like we transfer so you
think that means they don't have to police it as much though is that true
yeah because they're just gonna delete it anyway yeah so you you once you use
it's mainly for just like if you have a giant file you can't reasonably send to
someone you can upload it to here send it to them give them a link they
download it then it's gone I don't think you deleting it quickly obviates you
from sticking to the legal framework in the country that you operate you can't
say I had the child porn on my computer for half an hour officer therefore I and
it's gone now therefore it's not a problem well as far as like the legal
ramifications for Firefox it's like how are they gonna find that they have this
information if they don't have you know they don't have they can't say oh we
found this we can report it to you you have 30 days to get rid of it or
something you have to make action but it's already gone when they're when
they're monitoring some nonce who's using this to transfer files back and
forth and they're monitoring the URLs they certainly can go after them for
having distributed the data not that they're necessarily hosting it anymore
but they did distribute it so the fact that it's gone isn't gonna help them in
when it comes to their time in court I mean there's like 20 of these services
right now so I'm wondering how they handle that then because they have the
same situation I think what you say is certainly true but I imagine they will
be a much lower priority at least seems like a lot of these like you can
download this once and then it expires so I imagine priority be given to places
that are actually distributing it in a meaningful way rather than one-on-one
okay so bringing this conversation back to Firefox itself it sounds like mini
mac has been banging around on beta 55 how's that been going I tell you it's a
real pleasure I mean for 54 was even and what's getting better but 55 is really
cool a lot of less memory usage you can use it on really small systems and it's
running really great I was really surprised that's a certainly faster
really yeah it's noticeable if anyone ever problem with like with using
Firefox before and it from like Firefox like 45 46 or so up to 54 they've been
pretty they've been getting faster and faster but it's like you know very
barely noticeable like if you go get 45 and you then you compare it to 54 you'll
notice a difference but like in between individuals but 54 to 55 you can easily
tell a difference all right definitely I agree I want to know what it would take
for you to give it a go for you to actually use it because you are all in
on Chrome I have no reason to use it so it's not even a consideration like what
if it's faster like what if it what if it renders pages faster is it less
crashy because every time I've tried to use Firefox I run into crashing issues
hmm I'll tell you I mean it's less crazy for me yeah I I would imagine right
because the technology changes they're making would would have to lend the
stabilities I am I'm also unusual use case though because I have literally
hundreds and hundreds of tabs I use well I use about 150 tabs but so I don't
probably have as many as you but I have a significant amount and the new the new
structure structure with the electrolysis plus the 55 speed increase
is noticeably difference and like if there is crashing now that it's a much
cleaner and elegant like replacement it doesn't it doesn't crash it's entirely
just like this process goes away that's very encouraging I'm also kind of tied
into the the Chrome infrastructure because there's a lot of specialized
extensions that I use yeah that don't have direct Firefox replacements yeah
they probably they probably will soon especially with the with 55 and above
you can use web extensions that are essentially Chrome extensions ported to
Firefox interesting that is so 57 is gonna be only web extensions but 55
actually 53 introduced like the web extension as an option so there's
already a lot of extensions that are already built for their ported to
Firefox right now in the Firefox market like add-on market see the problem for
me is and as a former Firefox extension developer is that Firefox keeps changing
their extensions there's been like six different iterations of extensions so
and like three of them are deprecated now so you can't guarantee that your
extensions are gonna be there in six months yeah there is that well I mean
that's one of the reasons they're using web extensions as the infrastructure now
they're making it to like a consolidated type like you know this one
framework is what's gonna be used for most browsers that's what they did to
pitch the last four extension things though yeah but they're they're they
were the only ones that controlled that framework so people the other browsers
didn't want to agree with that a framework and they so Firefox is now
essentially it's Firefox is giving into web extension I'll tell you it's so that
so in the discord chat this who just brought it up somebody just brought up
in the discord chat Firefox is touchscreen support Mazda did and that
is that is a it is a limitation of Firefox that we don't talk about because
how many of us are using touchscreens but you know guess what we have a
touchscreen here in the studio and so every now and then I got pull up a web
browser on it and you just Firefox is a disaster and Chrome is much better 55 is
improved the touch a little bit as far as like the scrolling at because even
Firefox touch scrolling used to be atrocious and it's it's a lot better now
with 55 I wouldn't say it's probably as good as Chrome because Chrome is a lot
more cohesive but I would say by the time 55 comes out it's possible that it
might so going back to the experiments for a second isn't that exactly the kind
of thing that people were giving Firefox crap about doing like six twelve months
ago where they weren't focusing on their core browser and improving the core
browser things like hello yeah and they were don't you think but well okay send
is the is probably the the the the biggest hello you know okay that that I
agree but the tab stuff is actually in container stuff's actually pretty nice
like this kid like the sleeping a tab and then having it come back at a
scheduled time genius actually some of them are definitely
improvements to the browser but some of them feel like just ancillary projects
that are yeah the sleeping tab is already ability is already usable like
you can do it now but it like the timer stuff is really cool but like there's I
think the experiments are great because a lot of people talked about how
Firefox is removing features in there but it's becoming like a crappy clone of
Chrome or whatever like not even using the engine or whatever and and then just
keeping these you know Firefox is changing all these things and it's
making Firefox no longer as good as it was but now they're introducing these
potentially like game changer features like the container structure of the
profiles and session management that would make me I that would be that the
the main reason I could say you should use Firefox over any other browser
because you can control the session per tab and if you want to go to like I want
to log into Twitter ten times with ten different accounts no problem ready to
go that seems really compelling I'm gonna definitely give be giving it a go
absolutely hundred percent I'm actually kind of funny I'm at the point with
Chrome where I was that with Firefox when I switched away where the sync
feature is finally finally finally biting me in the ass it took a long time
so I got to give the Chrome folks credit for that but extensions that I removed I
pared down my browser extensions ages ago well you tried to yep they're
repopping back up and the ones that I need most critically are failing on the
machine that I needed the most critically which is the machine that's
on the live stream and so those things are all like they're not I can go back
in I can repair the extension and then I can reload all my tabs so it's I have a
workaround but I'm looking at that Firefox and I'm going I love what
they're about and I love what they're doing it's gonna be time for me to kick
the tires again absolutely especially if you if you wish want to try out the beta
it's definitely worth trying it like even now because it runs so fast it's
shocking so there's a story that I wasn't gonna cover but I've been seen in
the chat room and a hashtag blame poppy it's coming up again and it seems to be
discussion-worthy because the chat rooms talking about it a lot and there was a
there was a section in the new Red Hat Enterprise release so Red Hat just put
out I believe a 7.4 Red Hat Enterprise and you may or may not realize it in
every release they have a deprecated functionality section so in the chapter
53 of the release notes of Red Hat Enterprise 7.4 they have the deprecated
functionality chapter of course that's what that's what everybody uses that's
what everybody does with chapter 53 right favorite chapter deprecated
functionality and the one that is getting the chat rooms attention today
is they're dropping butter fs they're pulling back on butter fs and it seems
to be what everybody wants to talk about so I thought I'd open it up hmm I'll
start with the announcement the they say the butter fs file system has been a
technology preview state since the initial release of Red Hat Enterprise
Linux 6 and Red Hat will not be moving butter fs to a fully supported feature
and it will be removed in a future major release of Red Hat Enterprise Linux
Poby is this a is this a bad bad sign for butter fs is this essentially the
death of butter fs for the enterprise file system I you know I really can't
tell and I don't know I mean they're hedging their bets and saying it'll be
removed in a later release which they can always change those plans right and
it doesn't say when that would be so that yeah those plans could change but I
find it interesting that like two of the major players in entertainment mix have
taken a completely different stance on this that like for suzer it's like all in
default install yeah integrating package manager with right although I have to
say I have a I updated my when I saw the latest version of open suzer came out I
updated my machine and it all fell apart because it ran out of this space
because all the snaps the what's it called the snapshots of so I've got
snaps on the brain the snapshots from all the updates I don't know the past
caused it to run out of this space so I had to go in and manually like an animal
sure remove these that reminds me of that reminds me of that damn slash boot
directory on my fiance's computer that I have to keep going clean I can't wait to
trigger you I can't wait for that update in 1710 where it automatically cleans it
up that'll be so wonderful but yeah I follow you it is funny because you you
you kind of joke and jest but they are also building new projects on top of
butter fs there they have some stuff they're working on right now that's
really it's integral to it and so that is that you're right it is two major
deviations and then if I unless I'm mistaken right now Ubuntu like if I were
to install the latest LTS of Ubuntu it would default to extended for correct
right and then of course ZFS ZFS is available if you want it which makes a
face and all the others but right you know we don't we don't make butter fs a
first-class citizen like suzer do I wonder you got a wonder though folks in
Red Hat legal right now are working overtime making sure that they can put
ZFS and future versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux I've got to be getting
that from their enterprise customers they've got to be getting that I don't
think there is I would be willing to bet and this is my supposition I admit this
so this is just Chris guessing but I'd be I'd be willing to bet like a steak
dinner that there are at least enterprise customers exist that want to
deploy ZFS there's probably not nearly as many enterprise customers that are
actively seeking to deploy butter fs there's just a difference in brand
recognition so I wonder where Red Hat will go maybe they'll go with XFS hey so
yeah that's the big story because a lot of I think a lot of enterprises kind of
gave up on getting ZFS in in the supported way and so have large
enterprise sands or other solutions that they've kind of adapted to hmm yeah a
lot of those systems have something they just run on top of and they just like
the other solution to yeah when you're really doing large stuff anyways it's a
big release or they switch to a point to check the chat room really zeroed in on
it though I wasn't gonna put it in the show mm-hmm I wasn't gonna put it in the
show because I felt like it would just be butter fs hating but then I thought
about it and I guess it is kind of newsworthy that Red Hats rolling back
from it without really saying where they're going I even read notice
recently my I I didn't even notice until I dug into it my netgear ready nas runs
better fs by default I did I didn't know that until I SSH into it and happened to
type mount for whatever reason I was like oh wow it's actually running it
reliably it's perfectly fine that's good I suppose you know if you really know
what your use case is and you can control all these things and you know it
just it's not like it's it's not like it's destroying everybody's data
everywhere there's lots of people using it but there's just it's like been
labeled though it's been branded yeah well there you go also by the way Red
Hat Enterprise 7.4 is out I guess that also hi there I guess that also didn't
make it into the news anyways there's a few other tweaks in there for the
desktop Nautilus open terminals replaced with gnome terminal Nautilus so brace
yourself ooh brace yourself I like that word ordering yeah yeah there's there's
a win when a new version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.4 ships the Linux
desktop market shakes no not really not really but maybe one day digital ocean
calm go for digital ocean calm and use our promo code do unplugged after you
sign up it's one word you apply it to your account boom it's magic West you
know what that does it enables you it enables you with a $10 credit to go
create a machine on digital oceans wicked fast infrastructure with all SSDs
unbelievably low pricing and data centers all over the world the entire
friggin infrastructure is SSDs and man did they scream really it's they don't
say what the split the bitrate is there but it's it's it's fast I'll just put it
that way you can get started in less than a minute it's really nice and they
have lightning fast networking everywhere beard how many mean how how
crudel how crude how critical how critical do you think digital ocean is
did you put a broadcasting that's crucial and critical critical I mean
we're live-streaming from digital ocean right now from we're using at least three
three digital ocean droplets to make this show even happen right yeah yeah
and you know you could just spin up an Ubuntu droplet and stick some ZFS on an
SSD on there yeah and they it's actually a really cool way to play with ZFS
because they have block storage which you can scale up to 16 terabytes so you
can mess around with crazy ZFS experiments on their infrastructure just
use our promo code do unplugged and you can do it like run their $5 rig and
attach storage because you don't need like crazy amounts of RAM and CPU just
try it for a little bit and experiment around they also are working on the
object storage as well we're so excited they have a whole but list we were also
earlier talking about GitLab one-click deployment Ubuntu LTS all up-to-date
nice and shiny with GitLab ready to go ready for you to use just one button
deployment of a lot of great open source applications and they have load
balancing as a service they make it really easy if you're in a team and then
an interface for pros or beginners and an API that's to die for digital ocean
comm use our promo code do unplugged and a big thank you to digital ocean for
sponsoring the unplugged a program got a couple of bits of community discussion I
thought we'd pull in here this first one is actually over from our Linux and we
read it so you don't have to this came in though and I thought this is
interesting I really thought about this I thought damn this is an area where I
was hoping by now mycroft was gonna solve he says he writes I recently
injured my hands and wrists and typing is painful boy have I been there
recently mouse use is not so bad but still pretty sore so I'd need voice
control and or transcription software dictation for writing but voice control
for input would be helpful as well I've tried Simon pocket sphinx free speech
all on a boom to 72 1704 none of them work out of the box it might be a cool
gimmick that he talks about some of the other things are in there but for most
people but for me I need it with my certain with my current disabilities and
he says now that I really need it Linux voice control is a total nightmare
so there was a couple of suggestions that came in and I don't know if
anybody in the mumble room or the chat rooms has a suggestion but here's a kind
of a somewhat messy workaround I admit but I actually like this one and it was
from the comments section using KDE connect and I'm not a daily user of KD
connect but what if you used the voice dictation on the Android phone for input
and then use KD connect to send it in the machine that's clever interesting
but it Katie connect I'm actually a daily user of KD connect who does this
oh okay oh so is this a reasonable like actual workable solution as far as
transcriptions go yes it actually works quite well because it'll mimic a
keyboard like if you set your key to remote input with your KD connect from
your phone you can use it as a mouse or a keyboard so it uses whatever your
keyboard is to input the content to through KD connect to your computer so
anything you send through your keyboard will go to through KD connect to your
computer so you can have a keyboard that has voice built into it and the voice
dictation if it's good we'll send it to your computer and it works great but it
requires a really good voice dictation and keyboard integration so I use swipe
because it has dragon dictation built into it oh okay yeah dragon is good
stuff the company who makes dragon bolt swipe nuance so they're both they're
integrated together now and it's it works so well because you can just
because dragon is so efficient you just say whatever you want and it sends it in
this doesn't solve his problem out like management through voice but it does
solve the dictation and I use it not all the time but I use KD connect input
every day and I probably do the dictation when I'm doing like a long
email or something so that's a good tip about swipe so if I grab the swipe
keyboard I get to use nuances dictation engine that's yep not always that nice
like people who use OS X for kind of exactly that iOS also I iOS iOS voice
dictation is licensed by nuances driven by nuance so they like Apple Apple just
forwards that onto nuance and they do the processing so but the other nice
thing about it means you're not sending your voice to Google which is kind of a
means you could still get voice dictation on Android without having to
send it off to Google so that's that's that's a nice way to kind of get around
that I saw the I saw that producer Michael you also jumped in the in the
comments to help that guy out yeah I basically explained similar something
similar like a quick way like a you know this is how it works with me but I didn't
really go into detail but yeah it is a lot better than the basic Google voice
dictation and I think I think swipe is a better keyboard in general but the the
dragon dictation built into it is way way better and it's a lot it's very
smooth for this and the fact that Katie connect works on all de's and it's just
it's made by the Katie project but it's not specific to Katie plasma this is a
great solution pretty much for all Linux users the other thing that is sort of a
long-term looking up kind of thing is and like I said earlier we've been
covering it on Linux action news a couple of times is Mozilla's voice
project common voice and they're working on if you go to voice dot Mozilla org
they're working on essentially creating a common standard for this architect in
the chat room also says that BSD now has talked a bit about using I forget orca
he said so BSD now is covered orca a bit it's the reverse it's not a control
it's a reader yeah right it yeah the right it's a screen reader right orca
the screen reader but I guess that would be the other the opposite side is if
that's something you want to try anyways if you guys have any suggestions I have
a new way perhaps for you to get those suggestions into the show are you ready
for this no so Jupiter broadcasting is crazy pants sometimes I swear I swear
sometimes we just sit around and then boom all of a sudden it's total chaos
right now one of those moments is upon us it is we are trying out a new
platform to let me guess let me guess the US Postal Service I know I'm
couching this a lot aren't I like I'm really building up here that you're
right yeah I'm the USB up postcards everybody can we at least use FedEx I
think postcards would be pretty bad yes is a lot more efficient for me I also
think postcards would be great and you know if you look at how much a postcard
or a stamp cost it's way cheaper than using FedEx what about carrier pigeons
or carrier drones we could be hip mm-hmm there's a lot of different things we're
looking at these days but we are beta testing a sort of community
consolidation platform called discord that's how I'm looking at it and it's
one that we've had up on the chat room on and off we've had that chat room up
on the screen on and off of it combines several features and one of which is I
personally face a problem today and I'll just we'll just take a moment go to
Chris's corner here and that and that problem is that there are many a
platforms that folk can reach me on that I'm gonna just this off top my head so
I'll probably get the wrong but of course there's Twitter there's email
there is telegram there are is reddit messages there are Facebook messages of
course there's also Twitter DMS which I consider separate than at mentions
mm-hmm there's the IRC room what am I forgetting
Rekha I'm forgetting a couple of things but I think I'm making my point you say
telegram yeah I'm making my point like there and that is I would say those are
the daily platforms that people use and expect me to reply to them and it's just
sort of crazy it's a bit of a message octopus yeah and so oh thanks yeah I kind
of stopped checking it but Google plus yes you're right it is one of them since
I've started hosting shows I'm starting to feel some of this like I've been
getting reddit messages and Twitter DMS and yeah so you know that X KCD comic
about how there's too many standards so we need to create a new standard we're
creating a new standard yeah that's kind of what we're beta testing right now and
the idea is to sort of funnel it all into discord perhaps using bridges to
help people like so if you're an IR if you prefer to use IRC but you still
want to be in the conversation we could use either use work we're looking at
different systems bridges bots front ends all these different ways to make it
happen and essentially create a mega chat we could even integrate with
telegram so we could have a jblive.tv telegram group that can be like and
matrix yeah so you could have like you if you're a tele like a lot of people
just like to hang out on telegram we could just have a dedicated group we
wouldn't use the existing one but we'd have a dedicated group that would just
be if you're in here you're part of the live chat so you can participate from
different locations so we're looking at ways to consolidate and make a mega chat
and as part of that I'm testing discord right now we've launched it to our
patrons they've been beta test or alpha testing it for us really for like what a
week it's been about a week in a week in a day or so we've got a lot of people in
there and so now we're opening it up to the wider community to help test a
specific feature I mean you can test all of it but the feature that I'd like to
test is consolidation of feedback and I've launched a dedicated channel called
haircare and when you join haircare it is a place for you to have a direct line
of communication with me directly this is a room where you can share a show
idea you can air a complaint or a concern you can just give general
feedback you can say thanks whatever you want I just like it to be tight specific
and on topic and if you say like hey review more applications that's what
Eric did great piece of feedback there as like okay my first thought was well
which application so you know be specific but this is this is a spot where
at least for a while I'll be watching this very closely and if you if there's
something you want to get in front of my face this is the spot I'm gonna try to
it I'm gonna try to suggest everybody go to as a way to help beta test this as a
platform to see if it works for our community if you're curious about some
of our motivations about why we're trying this if you want to hear both
sides of that debate check out recent episodes a user where we've been
discussing the philosophical side of this and the community impact side of
this so I have a question for you sir hair care is that specific to Chris
last feedback it's like well what I was thinking was like say you wanted to
write a letter to the CEO and it's like something I mean I don't know I guess we
could anybody could probably anybody in the staff could probably respond I was
just wondering if I need to create a beard channel to get beard feet bad you
could you could yeah yeah I was thinking to be like it's not I mean you could
give me specific feedback about some of the obnoxious stupid things and tics
that I have that's fine yeah but I would I was really like is like I wanted to
let the CEO of the company know here's a problem or here's an idea or here's
something I love or here's something they need to do more of and you can drop
in there and at least while we're testing this and of course while there's
not as very many people in there you're definitely gonna have my attention we I
don't plan to be in there all the time I'm gonna check it in batches yeah we do
also have a content corner channel where you can share stuff like stuff that you
want to see on shows yeah so the car I was thinking the difference there the
content corner might be more like here's an idea I have and let's bang this out
so like I'd like to see more application reviews was Eric's idea so if you go in
the car so if Eric were to go on the content channel with that he could say
I'd like to see more application reviews what kind of applications do you think
JB should talk about like what are what are applications that need covered and
then that that would really kind of be useful for us to see like that to that
conversation that discussion and see where you and then you know when
somebody has a really poignant on the on the nose idea they can drop into hair
care and get in front of my face also something I haven't decided on should we
have like separate channels for each show in the discord I don't know I feel
like some shows like on filter probably should yeah I feel like we should ask
the community yeah so that could be something we talk about in general so
how do they get there that's probably a good question that's probably something
we should have said by now that would be discord dot me slash Jupiter colony nice
yeah we're calling it the Jupiter colony so you can join our colony if you're a
patron to go through patreon and turn on your discord part you'll get special
status in the discord system and I don't know if it's on automatically I like
like people have to go claim that perk you know in the in the patreon area
patreon the patreon bot does automatically oh it does okay you you do
have to connect your discord on the patreon side though okay yeah okay yeah
you manually naked to and then the bot gives you role and I did notice one
thing people that are donating but aren't on a specific tier won't get
connected so you have to be on one of the tiers ah that's that's interesting
so like if you're doing like say like if you do like two dollars and 25 cents
yeah that's not a tier level so it doesn't work with the yeah but if you if
you bump it up to like three dollar tier then yeah yeah we also you know we also
while we're talking about that the Jupiter signal patreon which plug plug
plug is a great way to support the network we also Beard and I released a
podcast exclusive to our patrons yep that talks about some of this too we've
been really this is something we've been really thinking about a lot because
there's obvious disadvantages to discord and the biggest one is the fact that it
is not open source and it is not self hosted and so that's the one where we've
had the most reflection and conversation around and I I'm not gonna repeat it all
here so that's in the other shows if you care but do know that it's something we
were giving a tremendous amount of thought to to the detriment of other
things we maybe should be thinking about to the detriment I should say much like
firebox yeah but it's all in the beta stage we have it we're not making any
changes we're not replacing anything right now it's all in the beta stages
and this is cool though they use Linux for the hosting they make a Linux
client available they use opus for the codec web RTC and all that kind of stuff
it's it's pretty nice and it works at different scales it works for large
communities or just for my kids to have like a little spot for them to chat on
their own server so yeah there you have it you can go to what was that URL again
there I'll be what was it it was a discord.me discord.me slash Jupiter
colony magic discord.me slash Jupiter colony and we will have a link in the
show notes too what do you think Wes because you know I know you you you like
your tools to be open source I do I know that's especially like the platform
level I know that's important to you but I also know that as a practical man
who's in the day-to-day like workforce you're also in slack quite a bit so you
this is something you've probably dealt with at that level like do I use you
know using slack and using it with different systems versus IRC what do you
think about this stuff what do you do you consider these tools to be precious
and that these cut discord and and instead of slack if possibly should be
using matter most instead of discord maybe be using matrix like is that how
much weight do you give to that debate I'm glad it's considered I mean it is
it is important I would prefer to use you know as much open source bot
platforms as possible but so many of these things you end up you know it's
just as like how many users do you have do you have the people that you want to
talk to you on the platform that you that is available and I also understand
your perspective in that like yeah between slack and telegram and all the
other things it can be you know there's a lot it's hard to keep track of and
it's hard to use right well well we've had a fragmentation of the community
between reddit IRC telegram and people who just you know are maybe occasionally
write in on email it's it's really spread out so it's attractive to
consider something that has the capability to bridge all these different
networks and mumble to and bridge it all together into one space that's pretty
attractive and then it has the feature set to spin up voice chats so that could
be very useful as right and that's what it's quite quite featureful and I think
one thing that like like slack at least you know for my day job and other things
that had advantage over the other clients that we'd already been using for
chat was just like you know first-class platform support first-class mobile
support quassel droid on the phone is not bad but it's not really it's not
really the same it hasn't been designed with that sort of use case or
interactivity so there's also I think would make it easier plus I've never
really liked telegram groups all that much I don't find them very usable I
don't use telegram for anything else like that so having I have to mute them
all the time and then I can't really tell if I've missed things or not I
don't know so yeah discarded feels like a better place to have yeah plus with
telegram and other things like there's already you know issues with the it
being hosted and that's true and really our IRC chat room is hosted on a
different service so I would it's on somebody else's system it's on geek
shed I do think it is imperative that we continue to build things like rocket
shat manner most matrix we continue to build bridges so that we can kind of you
can communicate on the platform of your choice maybe some of your communications
goes to a platform you don't like but you can at least control that and limit
it to where you need to mm-hmm to me these platforms are not so important that
it needs to be something that aligns with my self-identity it these are
things if Spotify were to go away tomorrow I'd be fine honestly if
Netflix were to go away tomorrow I'd be fine Amazon Prime streaming goes away
tomorrow I'd be fine Steam shuts down I'd be a little butt
hurt but if they gave me a way to keep my games offline I'd be fine I the
systems that I choose to participate in that are hosted are systems that to me
don't matter in ten years I could give I could give zero shits about about you
know Spotify in five years I really don't care I don't care if they make
money I don't care if they make it I just don't care because to me there's
always something else to switch to and there's always another platform that
comes around there's always another way to do that job and so for maybe a couple
of years it's one system and then for another couple of years it's another
system and you know it's to be how it goes a couple years after that'll be a
different system and it's just the way it works and to me none of its really
none of it really matters that you don't view it as like you know building blocks
it's not the foundation of your life it's just something that you kind of
connect into and yeah it's a thing that is providing me value for probably a
year or two and at some point it's likely going to stop providing me value
or the value proposition will be such that it provides more pain than it does
value and at that point I will switch to something else that's just how I see it
yeah I'm kind of in the same camp I do sympathize with people who use IRC all
the time and have been using it for the past 15 years and don't have that same
experience of hopping between clients all the time but I'm definitely in your
camp hmm I think discord is is is fantastic the only problem it has is the
proprietary hosting part yeah but there's a lot of features that's great
like especially the web hook system is fantastic can you explain that to me I
don't really understand web hooks does I saw it in the settings it's kind of
like its own bot built into the system so like if you can you can make it where
when you post something on Twitter it'll use a web hook to send it into the chat
room oh yeah I also saw like it you can use it with github so like if a project
doesn't yeah yeah essentially that's third-party services push notifications
to your discord right but you can also build your own webbook using like you
can even use like if this and that send using anything from there yeah into
discord that's interesting but it's basically to push information to you
this conversations like it would be this feels like this conversation to be
totally reframed if Jupiter broadcasting ran their own IRC server you know you
but like this we this this this problem I for me as a Linux user I don't know
where to draw the line here's where my my my my confusion comes in
if this is a line I were to hold say say I were to just reject discord out of
hand for Jupiter broadcasting simply because it is not open source the hosted
part of it then where do I draw that line do I say
well we can no longer use Android devices either because they're Linux but
they have a proprietary layer on on top of them do I say the same thing about
routers what about what about our edge routers like where do I draw that okay
go ahead yeah where do I draw that line I think the difference is what when
you're talking about using discord you're asking other people to cross the
line whereas what you're when you're saying what you're using inside your
studio nobody gives a toss what you're using in your studio sure but what you
when you're asking me to sign up for a service that's when it changes well
first of all that's not true because plenty of people care about what we use
in our studio probably too much but aside from that then then we should we
should we should also not be on telegram we shouldn't be on Twitter we
shouldn't be on reddit because we're not hosting that ourselves we shouldn't be
on any of these services I do agree yes so where if you're gonna draw the line
draw the line so I know poppy yeah I know you are in there so you use it you
all I think you probably have slacks that you're in as well I know you
probably use things like hangouts how where this is always a debate us Linux
users are having when do you choose a proprietary solution over the free one
what about you personally I'm a pragmatic person so I have an Nvidia
binary driver installed I have steam I have hundred steam game stored on my
laptop but I'm not inconveniencing anyone else by doing that I'm not I'm
not causing someone else to have to install non free software in order to
interact with you if you want to talk with me on a free software platform you
can do that right so be okay so are you saying so the key then is to leave the
leave a way for people to communicate that is an open and free platform still
so like right could be on slack you can be on discord but there's got to still
be a way if you don't want to participate in any of that stuff exactly
that would be a reasonable thing I think that's pretty easy to do with an IRC
bridge where it could be really tricky is there's no bridge for mumble so if we
I don't know if we'd ever replace mumble but you could see the super handiness
where you can integrate all of it in one place and especially when you consider
the fact that there's patreon integration so we could say maybe these
members of the unfiltered patreon can be involved in a listener edition of the
show and it's just a matter of check a box and now they have those permissions
if they delete their patreon account their permissions are removed we don't
have to manage two systems here at JB which we would suck at that's that to me
seems like oh well shit that almost would make it worth not using mumble but
then there wouldn't be a free and open way unless somebody were developed so we
need a mumble yeah scored brick but then the flip side is one of the biggest
hurdles for this here podcast that you're listening to right now is hey by
the way can you tell this is a summer edition we're talking about ourselves
this here podcast is when we bring guests on they really have often never
used mumble before and so most the time I ping producer Michael and I say hey
rotten I know you're probably busy but can you reach out to XYZ and can you
help this guy get mumble configured and he always says yes and he's created he's
created documentation for it too so but you can imagine like rotten if like I we
didn't have to do that anymore if it was just go to this website login and it
just works I mean it's still a cat you still kind of have to explain to square
there we used it but it is it's simpler to set up in the sense you have to
worry about ports or especially like the audio settings like configuring which
audio interface to use and the troubleshooting your connection is
really simple it depends where you are on the you know the storm in line and
there are certainly podcasters who won't put out their podcast even now as an mp3
but only as old and they use free software platforms and they have
self-hosted WordPress and you know things like that they and they only use
mumble and they would expect you to jump through hoops in order to be a guest on
their show now you're a bit further down the line in that you're going to allow
people to join the show but they'd have to you know they'd have to use some
non-free thing and you also use non-free just for distribution of your show which
they wouldn't use and I guess it's just what you're personally comfortable with
mm-hmm okay so is it Rob brother arm is that what row brother arm is it row
brother arm is that how I was supposed to rob the RAM how about let's just go
with Rob Rob you said you're in another community that's having this exact
conversation right now are we being basic yeah it was identical not podcast
related but minecraft server related but yeah we used to have an IRC server that
bridged into the game server and we all were IRC people and we recently moved to
mumble this cause because everyone else was on
discord but we still have a mumble room right and the other conversation of well
we've got people who already know how mobile works can easily diagnose or
discuss with the person how to get them into mumble it's all the
documentation and it's the question of do we really want to just move all the
way to right it's a bit the network of though isn't it because it's got a
network effect there's also like a lot of stuff built into discord by default
that in some cases requires the beta version of mumble to use you know one of
the things example controlling all volume of individual users is built into
discord exactly if you want to do that in mumble it requires you to have the
beta version not only is it built into discord but the UI to use it is simple
enough that I could do it on the fly while I'm saying these very very words
right now and I can adjust people without having to go up okay you know
so that's it that also wins to the UI not only is it great for guests but it
wins on tweaking volume and just one of the UI thing that's kind of nice is if
you think about it as somebody who's never been in the Jupiter broadcasting
community ever and they're landing here for the very first time when you open up
discord one of the things that I think is sort of nice and helpful is the hosts
are broken out and color-coded patrons are broken out and color-coded bots are
broken out and color-coded and people with ultimate admin power are broken
out and color-coded so you immediately know who's who like it it's not there's
not like ambiguity like who is DVL who's DVL with oh now you know oh that's Dan
from tech snap that's Dan oh shit that's Dan from tech snap like it's it's it's
more friendly in terms of just the layout and the way it looks and the way
people are broken out into groups it makes it understandable for somebody
who's coming to this community for the first time ever and which could be a
more and more thing on discord because of that network effect proprietary
software being prettier than free software who yeah is this this is why
I'm talking about it because exactly that poppy like this is a freaking
classic problem that we have now it is like it is the problem of our time with
hosted services and all of these sons of bitches are running on Linux they're all
using Linux on the back end it's really interesting because it's using Linux to
create services that eventually get a big enough user base that they get
profitable but they start with like this crazy venture funding structure they
have they have nitro which you can get for a discord if you want to give them
five bucks a month basically or four bucks a month it also announced they're
going to add premium plugins in the future but everything currently they've
stated everything currently that is free will stay free there's definitely some
features in there that are nice for us like there's there's integration with
things like OBS that are nice for us and there's there's moderating features that
are nice for us like one of the things that I've always kind of wanted is I'd
like to be able to review a log because a lot of times somebody comes to me and
they say hey so-and-so kicked me for no good reason and so this has a really
good auto log so I can see what's been going on just on that end of the
community which is something I don't generally get oversight over and so
that's that's pleasant but there's other things in there too about the way the
notification structure works it has a mode for when we're on the live stream
like we are right now where we can just immediately turn off all notifications
which is really nice oh and then the last thing and then we'll get off this
and this is again going back this is a classic for open source solution versus
hosted solution dynamite mobile app works great on tablets because I loaded
it all my kids tablets because they have a little private server with them and
Noah's kids and just dynamite app just really good app works well respects my
D&D preferences all that kind of stuff and that's always a problem like rocket
chat there's several rocket chat clients there's several matter most clients none
of them are quite as good as slacks client and the same with the same with
the discord like there's there's several mumble clients for mobile not really on
iOS but there's some it's like one I think and boy is it ass it really is ass
and of course discourse great and so one of the things that we've heard from the
community and I think this is a this is something just like when open source
projects move to github and get lab they get more contributors when we move to
telegram we got more members of the community because one of the things I've
heard is I'm on my phone and when I have time to respond and interact I'm on my
phone I don't I'm not at a computer and so that's why telegram works so good for
me and so we've we've heard from people on
telegram that we don't normally hear from because that's their that's their
that's the tool they use when they have downtime is they fire up telegram and
they chat with folks to kill a few minutes and now they're able to
participate in telegram they were never participating before in IRC or in the
comments or anywhere else I suppose the the main issue is how many how often do
we have people on mumble that are free software only well there's a good
portion I think I know there's a few for sure but I don't know that's the other
thing it's like it's like mumble is pretty stable and reliable once you have
it set up and you have a certificate and you have all that so it's kind of it's
harder to justify replacing mumble yeah I feel like it does have the best audio
quality out of all of them too yeah I think it sounds pretty good and it's
also a lot more efficient with detecting voice or not although I'll give you a
what where discord wins is I do like they're using opus but where they also
in the UI department again is they give you a cellular signal like equivalent
you get three green bars or red bars you hover it over it tells you what your
ping is you can click a little info button and you actually get like a
chart of your average response time of how your connections been doing it tells
you the ping rate to the different servers you're connected to it really
and it's something we've already used it in testing when we were when we were
troubleshooting with Noah we're like all right what are these numbers and we
immediately know what to expect and within I don't know 30 seconds beard
moved us over to an East Coast server because it's just you go up there
settings move to East Coast and resolve the issue wow and it was really handy
because it was just here's the information it was really easy for him
to understand even though it's the first time he'd ever even open it or second
time he'd ever even opened up discord is that kind of stuff
mumble doesn't do so well on but yes you get it set up making a server it says
what's what region do you want to put your server in stuff like that I could
also see like for productions like this show sticking with mumble and then for
productions like a special one-off version of kota radio or on filter using
discord for that where it's like hey we're gonna pull in a few people and
we're recording a holiday episode and thought we'd have the audience join us
where you don't normally have a structure and you don't normally have
people showing up every Tuesday that might be like the more impromptu voice
shows maybe that might be discord sorry what were you gonna say Michael I was
just I think mumble is a great software it's just it's the the luxuries that
discord provides is what makes look discord the current market share of most
most communities that are voice based kind of stuff like even teamspeak is
losing a lot of its market share to discord yeah it's growing it's growing
crazy because it's it's you know a lot of things that people been building
different systems to do in one you know I just thought of one thing that mumble
does that discord doesn't that is critical to the show I don't think
discord can do sub a voice channels like mumble does where we have like now the
on-air channel like the mic check yeah but it does it does do UI I guess we
could have like we could have different rooms but it does do it does do UI
feedback like if you don't have any mic level coming in and stuff like that so
it does walk the user through resolving the only limitation that based on that
point the only limitation of not being able to sub the ACLs and mumble allow
you to be inside the join queue and still listen to the show while you're
waiting whereas in discord you wouldn't be able to hear anything yeah see I
think maybe we would keep mumble for unplugged yep and then discord would be
like all right well in 15 minutes we're gonna have we're gonna have a show where
we want the audience we get like 10 15 people all of a sudden that might be
yeah yeah cuz really it's it's such it's just solid software once you get it set
up and you know we've got the mumble server hone on digital ocean so it's and
the the ping times ridiculously low for the studio it's like we have like a 36
ping it's just wonderful we also should probably create an announcements channel
so we can do like at everyone and just they'll get a push notification on their
phone when we're like live or something oh so like do people leave the
notifications turned on is that something people do I do actually if
you're a big if you're there's a suggestion by the discord team if you're
a big server you should not even do that you should server-wide turn off
notifications I look except for at mentions because there's times where
people will jump in and the more people you get the more annoying it is to never
use discord before so you're kind of like preemptively doing that for them
well the idea would be to have a channel that only we could post in yeah only mods
and whatever has the role to do it and then at everyone is a is a mention to
anyone oh yeah that's right yeah and the other way it's set up currently you can
also you can at mention like you can't mention groups so like yeah this is
something we're just gonna play with and you know right now we've got just a
handful of people in there because we've just been experimenting we like I said
earlier we launched with our patrons first and then sort of scale it out
scale it oh man we got to go geez oh okay so we got to talk about the slack
where challenge and then we'll then we'll then we'll scoot linux academy
comm slash unplugged go there to support the show and sign up for a free seven
day trial it's a platform built by Linux lovers for Linux users and lovers
like us Linux Academy comm slash unplugged sports show and seven-day free
trial go there try it out and sign up and check out their self-paced in-depth
video courses on every dang Linux cloud and DevOps topic and I really love the
hands-on labs because this is where you get scenario based stuff over an SSH
connection and you really know what you're working with when you go do it in
production you feel like you've already done it before and if you ever get stuck
along your path to excellent learning they have instructor mentoring standing
by full-time human instructors who also love Linux and they're there to answer
your questions that's that's such a deep benefit to Linux Academy and something
pretty much no other platform has this that's huge also you know what else just
thinking about what no other platform has the community such a vibrant active
community full of Jupiter broadcasting members and that's nice because there's
certain functionality inside Linux Academy some of the courseware that can
be iterated upon by the community and so when you have a good vibrant community
like that it means that the contents getting better constantly and they turn
that investment around into their infrastructure into their courseware and
into their instructors it really shows and as a Linux Academy subscriber now
for years I still find value out of it even when I'm just sort of toying around
with the concept it's nice to be able to go in and get a real grasp from the
basics all the way up to what the high-end stuff is and if you're looking
for certs I definitely recommend you check it out go to Linux Academy comm
slash unplugged and a big thank you to Linux Academy for sponsoring the
unplugged program Linux Academy comm slash unplugged slack where challenge
West I think here's what I'm thinking yeah now here's okay I got to tell you
what I'm thinking are you ready for what I'm thinking here's what I'm thinking by
the way what do you think I'm thinking I'm gonna put it on one machine after
this episode I've already got the ISO downloadable you're ahead of me yeah
well I you know I had I had an inside scoop thing I kind of knew it was
coming and I'm going to I can't commit to switching to it immediately because I
have unfiltered tomorrow which requires like my whole rig but I will put it on
my XPS 13 which I've recently been trying different distros on and I'll
run it starting Thursday full-time I believe I'll be able to run it full-time
so I'll work on it tonight and tomorrow to kind of get it like get it loaded up
so by Thursday I'll be running it full-time and I'll try to report back
and share my experiences what it was like to install some basic tools we'll
see we'll see how far I get maybe I'll get all suddenly like I'm not using this
full-time I may bail I may bail in the pursuit in the in the pursuit of other
tasks they may have to be is there anything you're really excited about
though well it's as soon as I saw the website it really it got me a little
nostalgic so there was that that that sort of took me back a bit and then I I
almost went and just decided to put this off a week and order the six CD set oh
that would be fun yeah and get like a actual like package but then I realized
that none of my systems none of my systems have a CD rom you have to send
them off to a kind of viewer who will convert those USB you'll grab like the
extra like USB one that we have floating around here somewhere so I just
downloaded the torrent but I was kind of excited so that felt old-school and one
of the things that's really kind of fun is it also makes me feel nostalgic is
you can download the individual disks so like you used to have to do you can
download disk 1 disk 2 disk 3 disk 4 disk 5 and disk 6 if you want the source
code you don't need to six and so you know during the install it would be
ejecting the disk and asking for the next disk I miss that so much I would
never actually want to do anymore but I'd like the one chance to do it again
so I was tempted but then realized that I don't even have the capability so
instead I grabbed the quote-unquote DVD ISO which I will never be burning to
a DVD but it's cute that they call it that which includes everything except of
course the source code yeah yeah and I'll be putting that on my xps 13 now
this is the I I did not intend to I guess I could change it but I did
accidentally grab the 32-bit version and I thought well maybe I'll just go with
that like I'll just be old-school I'll embrace it but you know you could get
spin up and doing an install on a virtual machine and then have your like
CD switching out fun yeah yeah so if you want to join me in this journey I say
what I was thinking is if I can't run it as my full-time desktop what I'm gonna
at least try to do is set it up for one specific task and do that job or do that
have you decided what desktop you're gonna run no no I mean I was probably
gonna go KDE but I really hadn't given it we'll find out what would you do what
are you gonna do I really don't like old gnome I really don't like old gnome
although you go too old on KDE plasma and I'm not I don't know did you say
plasma is the best yes you're right yeah even old plasma even old plasma well
wait wait wait are you saying that it's like we're only asking you for I don't
actually remember I don't ask a for then a Monte sounds good where do I go here
oh yeah Monte would work yeah you're right I was actually a Joe would
probably love to hear this I was actually thinking XFCE but then the
issue is and here's why this could already be bad is that damn XPS 13 is
high dpi oh so what is slack we're gonna do when I put it on a high dpi machine
what it's like we're gonna do I mean I've got to go with the more modern I've
got to so I got I hope that it's using a current version of plasma anyways I wish
I could say more I wish we had more time but we really should get going to make
room for the tech snap guys join us live next week won't you it's a lot of fun
you go over to jblive.tv and if you do it on a Tuesday you'll be here for the
show you just got to get the time right go to Jupiter broadcasting comm slash
calendar for that now here's the great part you tune in for the unplugged show
you stick around guess what guess what comes next free extra show tech snap
that's the one bonus show with Wes and Dan so we invite you to also check out
the discord community and get involved in the hair care channel it's what I'm
testing out to see if that works as a consolidated feedback mechanism and you
can find a link to that or it was discord dot me slash Jupiter colony there
you go check out more of Popey over there on the Ubuntu podcast new episode
coming out soon check out Wes on tech snap and he's at Wes Payne that's right
check out Rekai where do you want them to check you out mr. beard
rek.net R-E-K-D dot net boom I'm checking him out I like it or twitter.com
slash rekaelpi you bastard you bastard thank you very much to to our virtual
lug for being here we hope you'll join us next week and have a great week see
you then
hot tip hot tip from Popey for those of you who missed out outside the u.s. on
the XPS 13 giveaway those cats over at the Ubuntu podcast I believe are giving
away an Intraware Apollo soon are these rumors true Popey these rumors are true
yes we get episode goes out on Thursday and it'll have all the details of how
you can enter the contest contest runs for about a month so should be easy for
everyone to find a bit of time to enter I'll snap very nice JB titles calm let's
go pick our title everybody JB titles calm anything jumping out at you what
about the Americans that want an Intraware though I don't think they're
screwed yeah right for the right to IRC oh geez that's funny discord not
ethical the only problem is that will create a that will create a movement to
save IRC yeah reality is a service dragging the line the Stallman line
that's not bad the Stallman lines not bad have we used that before anybody
want to double check on them maximum maximum electrolysis was mine but now in
retrospect not as good as the Stallman line Chris switches to PSD you try an
architect dude you could you could put a picture of Stallman's face over that one
scene in first contact with the card so it turns out alien pastures from
slackbook says that plasma 5 does work on slackware cool I'll find out we go I
will find out so fight for the right to IRC is up there cut the discord discord
not ethical and the Stallman line really the Stallman lines not getting more love
like we talked because it's not just about discord it's about like this is a
common problem now and open this is this is it used to be like Linux or Windows
it's not that shit anymore it's this now this is what it is we're using our
proprietary we use Linux phones with proprietary apps to connect to
proprietary services running on Linux and we didn't even get into the fact
that it's also it touches on the electron electron debate too you didn't
even get a fun little nugget for next week yeah I'm kind of a fan of the the
title reality as a service reality the service is good too I'll give it a boat
I'll give it a boat the also the IRC thing is there's really no reason to be
for people to like like save IRC IRC wouldn't die because the only issue
would be mumble is the situation because IRC has a bridge so you could continue
to use IRC and be indirectly connected to them a discord chat yeah yeah yeah
that's true well I'm told that Stallman lines moving up now that I gave it some
nice promotion I'm told that bridges are tacky and are only used by Minecraft
servers oh never be used for IRC tacky huh we are wrong so I did see someone
had had written a very minimal JavaScript app to forward messages between discord
and mumble they said there's no reason it shouldn't be able to work so if
anyone wants a project seems like a voice I've actually seen I know of a bot
I'm working on with the intergos channel team we're doing we have telegram matrix
and IRC all connected and working on adding discord into it too you should
look at working with the what was it the the matter something project most no
hang on I gotta look it up now Oh beard paying the matrix bridge is the most
impressive bridge I've seen for IRC because it it makes IRC users like react
exactly like a matrix user in the matrix check chat and also vice-versa so like
you have a full both you have a full power of both sides from either side hey
Rekha you remember what episode we announced the winner of the XPS 13 mmm
yeah his name was Michael to now I think it was the one previous to the last one
number 18 yeah Rekha tricked you because he didn't put it in the time so a lot of
people been like I listen to that episode I haven't heard it and it's like
ah you didn't you just looked at the timecode that's what you did all right
we got a we got a run because the tech snap guys got a start but I think let's
go check our winner is the Stallman line which I think is a good solid title so
that's actually West's wonderful line by mr. Popey hey thank you everybody in the
moment room for being here guys you guys like crushed it today that was what's
the term you smashed it was it you guys smashed that like you guys smashed that
mumble button today thank you really smash that to push to talk real quick
the name of the the software is matter bridge it bridges IRC getter XMPP slack
discord telegram rocket chat hit hip chat steam and matrix with the API yikes